Hello, this presentation is titled geographics data in Raku demo. My
name is Anton Antonov today's June 16, 2024. This presentation is
mostly about this to Raku packages "Data::Geographics" and
"JavaScript::Google::Charts" you can see here in the plot some the
data from the first has been used and I have invoke the function from
the second package to make this geographical plot so before going
further, I would like to mention what there are Three panels I'm going to
be using for this presentation. The left panel is with a mind-map, which
is going to get us oriented where we are at and I'm going to use it
to summarize the presentation in the middle is the presentation itself
and to write most part is a browser with which I'm going to show some
relevant data Right, so what is this about looking at the map? The
geographics package is the protagonist of this presentation. It has
country data and city data visualization in geographics and data
science and particular which I kind of specialize is very important so
initially I wrote this presentation with jaw script free, but it was
difficult for me to make a geographical plot with jaw script, free,
I'm not taking it impossible it is possible. It was much is it seems
and it is actually in practice to program this Raku packet job chart
which interfaces to chart google chart is relatively alter framework
for making pre-can Types of charts like you can see them here Is is
which is used in JavaScript is another JavaScript for graphics but
it's lower level and it's much more flexible and you can do variety of
plots so I'm going to so the presentation is using script to Google
charts Package GSL to geographics is some going to be demonstrated
very briefly actually we can do name interior recognition with it and
see if you if you make conversational agents and you want to recognize
some recognize city names or country names you can use this package
this package this silence geographics is very closer related to
"Data::Geographics" but they independent right now. Geography is a
little bit too big. I'm going to explain that and I need to figure out
how to make it smaller how to make the day. It smaller and to make it
more shareable then I'll introduce more dependencies based on
"Data::Geographics" so we're going to see contra data some kind of
rudimentary analysis with sailing regression over the gross domestic
product and electricity production So the package "Data::Geographics"
also cities data and I'm going to be showing some some related
statistics again probably a very convenient way to showcase the chart
and JavaScript google charts. I'm also going to use this package DSL
English data query workflows, which allows for generation of code the
point and. With the city data we're going to do some neighbors
graphs. We're going to do some proximity search and I'm going to be
using another new package called math nearest so my nearest my fitting
jaw group Google charts were very new packages within a week or two we
have been proclaimed in the. System So with the presentation, I was
discussing already free versus Google charts. I'm not sure. Should
they go further here with that? Probably not so well Package like 10
years old same for the fridge but since since camp and has extensive
documentation like for example if I take this bad here right and if I
look at say the parameter switched us which case so quite a lot of
parameters very well documented relatively old at least 10 years old,
so this makes it very good So to speak for large language models, so
large language models should be extensively trained with discussions
or documents over right about Google chat and it is the case I'm
actually here I'm making a specific prompt which of persona if you
will persona with using some of the most recent models of JPG and so
I'm going to request some Certain elements, for example how do you do
tuning of certain plots like in this plot here we can see what to say
the countries which are known by "Data::Geographics" in some shades of
green and gray the rest of the countries but how exactly do you tune
those colors right so figuring out is it background is it just
background color right so it's like for example, the data less regions
which gray right so these are the ones which the package doesn't know
about Again, I didn't necessary know the names of this options and so
this you can see we get the result here because I did say what I want
the results. The result of the options to be as it did put the last
model. He did put the cold fence Rakuu here but otherwise this is this
is Josh script. All right, so let's actually demonstrate something
else you can tell me well but why why use Rockwood all for this? Can
you just generate some? Yes, we can this exactly what happened here. I
did say what I want. Some some. Let me show you what what this is so
automatically when I have this large language model chat cells in raku
chat book automatically the old put his been copied in the clipboard,
that's why I was able to just put the old. Both I was able to put it
here and so yeah, we can see what this is the Google chat so type of
framework right so we have a chart and so far right and the countries
we have been colored between green and orange exactly what I requested
here and I asked for the diff for Cuba to be used and so so This book
is using the drip of framework. The drip of framework is based on
browser technology and so that's why we can visualize this kind of
fits easily in an ad drip notebook and I'm going to continue with the
presentation so I'm going to be discussing countries and what kind of
method data we have for them. As I mentioned the package data
geographic is a little bit too large right now it's around 30 MB with
all of the data for countries and cities. I want to figure out how to
make it small and what kind of ways we can make the data in smaller if
it's not possible than well. Some other things, some other steps need
to be taken but for now I have 29 countries so you can see this all
like say each column has 10 countries except the last one so 29
countries for this which of this 29 countries I have approximately 200
method data points method. The meter data here for discount is being
shown approximately 200. I think 195 and so. Just to demonstrate what
kind of form the smaller data set write a subset of this 195 data
points I have made this table we have the name. The full native name
is your name area population gross domestic product and electricity
production so I'm using case and it's just not convenient to use the
kebab case for this kind of update least for me. It seems very. I'm
natural also in Google chat so you can see you know it's not me who is
imposing this. They do use the camel case so so I'm sticking with the
camel case for the geographical data so this data here I'm going to
use some this to last column. And make a correlation clot so you can
see here so we have we have this some we have plotted here the GDP and
the accent so Christie production on the way and you can see Jelic
girl if I put her here if I disable the scale this plot becomes some
very informative because China and USA dominate the whole The whole
plot and all of the points in the left bottom corner and here, though
we've this plot I can show that I can show tread Trent lines I can fit
this regression line. This is this is coming as a functionality
built-in functionality in Google charts now if I make this logic
scale, then I think let me see if I make it look scale. This might
still work at least to a point maybe maybe not all of them OK yeah so
it works. You know if it works it works if I make one of them, I'll
make up more precisely if I make them. Scale if I make both of them, I
do not get so sorry Both I do not get this what I expect here so not
necessarily a great motivation but motivation nevertheless, let's use
prop or this in ability to to make the fitting in the plot to make the
fitting line. Let's use that as a motivation to make our own fitting
so here I'm using this new package muff fitting, which can do at this
point it can do linear regression only into dimensions or The
regressor variable dimensional regress Santis also dimensional. I'm
going to extended very soon for that to be multidimensional anyway so
here we get lineal moral fit. It's an object and this object it's an
object which is also cable and you can see. I can call it with certain
parameters get to the parameters here to some summary we see what the
summary is actually not of the summary of the residual so this object
also knows the residual of the proximation and I plot the residual if
you follow here. The zero axis you can see this they look like white
noise in a sense and this means what we have a good fit, which is not
a big surprise if you'll just look at the cloud and so let me do it
here if you look at the make up plot, right it's a very nice obvious
very nice line which is here. Maybe we have couple of outlaws like
Iran and Denmark and but but in general it's like a very very tight
kind of rectangle around obviously something kind of phone line it can
be fit easily for. Or faithfully so this word is here I hear I have
use this so I have to do some. I have this column fit to the data and
here. I'm actually making a combination chart and I'm saying that my
plot is a scatterplot but treat treat them. Serious with index one
treat it as a wine and so what happens here is but when you have the
combo chart in Google chats the first column in this case GDP this is
just what is on your electricity. Production has index zero this is
your first column and then the second one is fit and of course we are
using indexing from zero so that's why I need to say serious one and
so this is what you see. We are basically plotting the fit and we have
this kind of nice nice. Nice kind of looking fit right so some other
data which country data which is being put into the package and as I
said, nearly 200 points so what you see here it's basically to us
right contour, which is a contour plot is being made for the
coordinates of the boundary of a certain country United States so this
is country United States. I have extracted and then. Get the
coordinates so this kind of structure it it's a mash And so I can
retrieve it now Can do this kind of plot form with so we can see if if
I find this I can do that but actually doing geographical plot like
the one I was showing kinda opening here. It's not it's not that easy
at least for me with the fridge to figure out what to do and how to do
it and it was fairly easy to have fairly good results using Google
chat fairly quickly using. With Raku Raku though is some just a
conduit so to speak to Google chats, I'm not I'm not trying to put my
own options so I kind of accommodate some more common type of form
inputs like a single single dimensional list of one dimensional list
of numbers, I can still plot it, which is not necessary allowed by
Google chats but in general there's not much There's not much kind of
change in the way work with this package when I use it in Rocco, I
mean this is definitely Certain opinionated use soap speak or GS so
yes, I'm using down the line functionalities, but I am kind of
designing my own type of interface which I think should be at least
point appealing to generic generic users So let's continue with for
the city date so city date it's it's not that it's not that Populated
with different types of data points it has locations populations
actually has also links and this is something fun too to show so here
you can see I have from 42,000 43,000 cities from United States. I
filtered them here so I took the city data. It's a. It's a crash Oh,
for a race of cash maps Here you can see from this data set city
data. I have extracted some 78 comms ID the country the state the
city, the population, large longitude, elevation, and location. I
think this is the this is the only data I have for the cities now the
location link is kind of nice because we can visualize it with Google
right so we can if I click on this location links I can go to the
browser and see where this is and so. I had to work so speak for a
little bit. I had to replace in this HDL table, which is being made
with dysfunction to HDL, which is not coming by default so speak if
you use raku chat book so yeah I had to replace. Text or text
substring but look like you else I had to replace on this syntax from
HTML fall links but yeah that was very convenient. Let's pick some big
city here. Let me actually see. Can we get some bigger city for larger
population and I don't see very large population maybe 25,000 and
let's let's speak this one so. So yeah, I mean it's kind of nice kind
of convenient to have this visualization. I'm not sure. Is it possible
to visualize this type of chart directly here in the drip chart book
probably that possible it's not something can I? I'm very interested
to do. It is just not something it's a high priority and I haven't
investigated that much. So we're going to look into the distributions
of form or across the states of population and number of cities, and
you know how to do that I have to actually aggregate the data so my
data here and go back to this my mom I only have countries data as a
as an entity, right I have countries and I have another entities. Yes
they do for cities do refer to states, but there's no separate entity
state for which I hear aggregate or accumulate or have specific
information. Maybe I should have but at this point I don't so in order
to see for example some interesting interesting analysis or explore an
analysis of the distributions of the populations and the number of
cities state in United States. I need to do something something like
this right I'm basically taking the city. I am grouping by states and
I am finding the number of the cities in each state and the sum the
population. This is why the scion here when they say summarize
population what you see here this generate some this generates this
code which tells me that the colon population from the data said is
going to be summarized with the function mean and Max. I have a
replacement and max with some. And we get what what I just said right
we get for each state we get the number of cities because population
is the city right so if I find the number of elements of the
population population Right in the column population if I find the
number of this is going to give me the number of the cities and then
the sum of courses the population itself and so here I am I'm
basically doing this and more less Just preparing the date for
plotting and sometimes with Google chats, you need to spend some time
to do massage the columns in order to get the two tips. I want to get
here so I am getting the two tips I want. But I had to somewhat work
work for it too hard now in the in some of the chart 2 tips they come
by default, but they didn't have this default. Here didn't have the
phone I want it and you can see here for example for Illinois I want
to be Illinois in bolt and have certain format for the it is
definitely possible. It's just we need to basically looking into the
documentation and see the examples and then something like this can be
can be made now we can see. I'm having logarithmic plot again, but
it's not on both scales. It's only on on the. On the horizontal scale
and what does this mean so if I do this again, so actually I don't
want to hear of my skills apologies so just actually on the on the
vertical on the vertical scale it should be right because right now
you can see some kind of exponential dependency here, but it's also
becoming very spread out and so right so if I log of my Ex what is
going to happen it's not informative and if I log out of the The
populations then we start to have something cool something like I mean
it's not exactly linear, but it is somewhat over rectangular shapes so
it is a linear dependence. I can claim linear dependence with large
dispersion so this is something to be expected. This means that the
population has some exponential dependency when it comes to the number
of cities and makes sense the most cities who have estates the more
likely will be cities which are for much more citizens you know in
them so basically large cities and so that's why we get this. This can
be done. This can be illustrated in some other way for example, here
we just I have ported the number of cities. Now we're going to look
into the parent statistic so this case yeah so here you can see this
is say New York whatever right Pennsylvania whatever and so the
numbers here so I want to make the so cold to principal plot or
principal verification with the suitable plot, what happens here is
what I have sorted the cities according to the states according to the
number of cities we have then I accumulate those number here
progressively, and I normalize by the total And so this what the
statistic 8020-year-old if you will so here we can see what I have
done this ball for populations and phone number of cities so we can
see what say what is the approximately 30306050175240f the states have
50 no 6017f the cities and similarly Approximately approximately
20171341300f the states have 6017f the population I mean the 8020 rule
is actually in a different manner displayed here so this is more this
is like yeah Like 40 40% of the states have 803010044500f the
populations right yeah enough whatever just can be done in a slightly
different way. I don't need to show it here. It's just different
styling in case you use this notebook to do charts you might look into
this alternative form representation so this here I'm going to move to
to actually doing proximity searches and using this new package
nearest. So so here I'm taking again this city I can filter it in some
waiver some outlet. I think just to make the data kind of smaller to
get this more familiar way or visualizing visualizing USA so what is
happening here? Yeah I have made the plot data but before going to the
plotting what I'm extracting, I'm making mark or hash or for the IG of
each city with its dual location. What longitude Now I'm making this
nearest I'm calling dysfunction nearest which makes a fun right so not
fun it makes this Function object with the distance function due
distance and over this dislocations and here I am I'm basically trying
to. I want to use dysfunction to find the nearest neighbor neighbor or
for Las Vegas Las Vegas you know Rocco and conferences happening I
think this month in Las Vegas so that's why we're using Las Vegas here
so Alternative way to find this ID it's this is the name recognition
and I think you know this is actually I'm going to return to it. Let's
actually continue with the nearest neighbors so I'm finding the actual
neighbors with we didn't hundred kilometers so the distance function
this one here by default uses meters distance is a function which
comes from "Data::Geographics" So here I'm going to use the
opportunity to mention some of the geographical packet packages in in
the raku ecosystem. I am mostly familiar with your basic which is very
new actually and well-known text so your basic has also distances
right and so but "Data::Geographics" also has geographical distance
because well why not and I'm using this is from from the package
"Data::Geographics" I'm using the Haversine formula which is maybe not
what precise but it's considered to be a very good approximation so So
just this right and if I can use it to find some to find new neighbors
and I have found the nearest neighbors here and here I'm just
preparing. I'm preparing my search point so speak and. Found neighbors
and all of the all of the cities which have more than 1000 citizens
just don't so this is a plot but so here when I make this here you see
I'm picking from the from the set of 3000 to from USA. I'm picking the
ones which population more than 1000 and so this is how this spot
looks like so if I go here right so this should be Las Vegas right so
this point the point in yellow these are the nearest neighbors we
didn't say hundred kilometers. I'm going to show how to kill you if
you wanna use miles right we can use something else. You can see here
couple of signatures to be used when you use the nearest neighbor
functions function in this particular case the second argument has a
list of two elements whatever this means whatever neighbors whatever
number of neighbors you have within hundred kilometers so the most
straightforward way to call that would have been to just say that I
want the top 20 neighbors or something like that. So before actually
going further with the nearest neighs, I wanted to discuss the ID and
the name recognition so I did mention here to this so I can have this
recognition in this way. This function is provided by by. DSL entity
geographics and ETS has some nice properties so say for example, if
you say Atlanta it's not going to it's not going to give you an idea
like this because Atlanta is a generic name but if I say United States
then them more than more than one Atlantis in United States so if I
say that I want exhaust match, then I'm going to get a bunch of a
bunch of Atlantis paint match across USA So and All right, I guess I
guess that was it for the image recognition so let's move to the
nearest graphs. This is very very interesting application of course to
the nearest functionalist in my nearest so you can see what I am
actually picking certain states I want to reduce the search space, but
I have picked. States cities in Nevada, which have more than 4000
citizens again I'm taking the ID from the identify of those cities
coordinates and then I'm kind of reducing the label the label sizes
and basically replacing this United States right United States Nevada
whatever we saw here I'm replacing it with for string right so So what
is happening here then I'm calling the function neighbor and I'm
asking the format to be given into into mermaids mermaids is a type of
type of formalism for specifying graphs and diagrams and then I can
visualize just so I can visualize this graph in in this group or
notebook using using the package "WWW::MermaidInk" so it's a service
Web service which this package provides access to Since I mentioned
what I'm using the fridge, let me see I should have I mean I have I
have everything I said presented so far. It's also returning Java
script with Java script free right using the free so you can see here
like this is Las Vegas and this is the search point and the the. Tip
is not on top of the chart, but it's actually the bottom you'll see to
the bottom of the screen so the grass themselves I can actually use
the GG Graphs so cold for graphs it's very nice very interesting if I
I think this is I already executed so there's some kind of settings
for this for so whatever but the nearest neighbor is you know nearest
neighbors graph and can be can be set in such a waiver to you know
somewhat like this if I say remove some of this default default
parameter I put this might look somewhat much less appealing, for
example, or you know or whatever but yeah I'm not going to go further
without and just saying, but this is this is graph plot, visual plot
Type of visualization this graph plot is in in right so it comes with
the I don't need to go to an external service for it. This is what I'm
doing with my meeting right with more when I when I'm here this
actually goes to you need to have a web connection. It goes to an
external web service to make this graphs and here I have made the
graph instead of taking the. Top the closest to make the graph here I
can take all of the neighbors which within radius of 8 miles and so
this is what I was saying if I want the distance function to be
something else not to be using the units meters I can define it in
this way. I can say what I want. The distance function to be within
miles. And if we wanna convince ourselves, but we get meaningful
results, we can make this cross the ball. I can make this this Cretian
product of the locations. Is basically make this kind of this and you
can see on the diagonal all zeros so basically the columns correspond
to the rose and so these are the distances between the and the Diferan
cities so I do have some future plans for this quite a lot of this
needs to be needs to be upgraded in someway. I'm not going to to
discuss this too much but some of my future plans about
"JavaScript::D3" become. Much more priority because I have I have a
Google chats. I have access to Google chats. I want to mention
something else here since I did let me see some of the things I can
not do with charts first about the graphs. I don't think you can, you
can plot to this kind of graphs maybe you can use the maps or for maps
functionalities but you need to share Google maps API key so they do
have some kind of nicer functionalities here, but you need to have the
key for it as far as I can tell and I haven't seen naturally actual
graph bank plot. So maybe I can't look hard enough. Some of the things
I can do here which are more specialized and they don't necessarily
come from the fridge right but I have done it so I'm going to
demonstrate this kind of one of my favorite things examples so to be
honest so actually it's not plopped. It's random Mandel. And so this
is just not easy to do Just not easy to do with with with chats right
and but you know I I could figure out how to use the fridges to make
this kind of plots So I'm going to return Here so in summary, I would
say We consider all of this all of the elements I put into the mind so
yeah, they geographics it has count with some additional packages. We
can do some statistical or statistical analysis maybe rudimentary
maybe not some rudimentary but it's very informative all of all of
this fitting and distributions we bought it and we can we can
make. Informative plots over this geographic data using both of this
packages group free and just group chat thank you for your attention
